Okay, off we go.
So this dataset's got a few columns,
it's got row number, custom ID, surname.
So what we're looking at is a dataset of a bank.
Of course it's all fictional, it's not a real bank,
but it's very realistic.
And here we've got a snapshot of--
if you scroll down to the bottom
there's going to be 10 thousand customers.
So 10 thousand rows in this dataset.
And what the bank did is they measured
some things about these customers, alright.
Why did they undergo this whole thing,
what's the challenge here?
Well, the bank has been seeing unusual churn rates.
So churn is when people leave the company
and they've seen customers leaving at unusually high rates
and they want to understand what the problem is
and they want to assess and address that problem.
And that's why they've hired you
to look into this dataset for them
and give them some insights.
And how did this dataset come to be?
Well, six months ago the bank said alright
there's a big problem.
We've gotta take a sample of our customers.
By the way this is a sample of it.
10 thousand is a tiny number for this bank.
This bank has millions of customers,
it operates, this fictional bank operates in Europe
and three countries France, Spain, and Germany.
And they have lots and lots of customers.
So what they did is they took this sample
of 10 thousand customers and they measured six months ago
everything they knew about them.
Their custom ID, their surname, credit score,
their geography, their agenda, their age, their tenure,
so how long they've been with the bank,
the balance of the customers at that point in time,
the number of products they had at that point in time.
So the number of products is things like
how many products do they have,
do they have a savings account, do they have a credit card,
do they have a loan, did the customer have a credit card
or not, so there's a yes/no flag,
is the customer an active member, another yes/no flag.
Active member can be measured differently
by different organizations, it could be whether or not
the customer logged onto their online banking
in the past month, whether they did a transaction
in the past two months or some other measure like that.
And estimated salary, so the bank doesn't know
the salary of the customers, but based on the other things
they know they could estimate a salary for that customer
and they also give you this information.
So six months ago they measured all of these things
and said alright so for these 10 thousand
randomly selected customers
we're going to just watch them.
And six months down the track we're going to check
who of those customers left
and who of those customers stayed.
And that's what this column Exited represents here.
It tells you whether or not the person left
the bank within those six months.
So this person over here sometime within the six months
he left the bank and as of a couple of days ago,
he's no longer with the bank.
This person over here on the other hand,
is still with the bank.
So there's a zero here.
This person left the bank.
This person stayed and so on.
So if you see a one that means
the person's no longer with the bank
and zero the person's still with the bank.
And your goal is to create a demographic centric model
to tell the bank which of the customers
are at highest risk of leaving.
What I wanted to mention today is that
for a lot of customers centric organization
this is going to be value.
So I've done this personally, I've done this so many times,
it is such a value added to
any customer centric organization.
So whenever an organization deals with customers,
this is a lot of value added.
And then the other thing is that this skill
that you're going to learn is very transferable.
It doesn't have to be for a bank,
it doesn't have to be for churn rates.
Your demographic segmentation models
can be applied to millions of scenarios.
So here for instance, even in a bank
this same scenario could work.
Should the person get a loan or not?
Should the person be approved for credit or not?
And once again you'd have a binary outcome.
So based on prior experience you would know
whether not a person is reliable
and you'd build the model and say
which people are more likely to be reliable
and which people are more likely to default.
And that could govern the bank's decision
on whether or not to give loans.
This could be in terms of fraudulent transactions
and not even in a bank, in a different financial institution
so you could find out which transactions are more likely
to be fraudulent which are less likely.
There's lots scenarios where you could apply
a demographic segmentation model.
And it doesn't even have to be your demographic
so whenever you have a scenario
when you have a binary outcome
and you have lots of independent variables,
you can build a proper robust model
and that'll tell which factors influence the outcome.
So can you apply this knowledge,
it's good to learn in any kind of scenario.
We have a binary outcome and lots of independent variables.